                                                              Movie-Recommender-System
                                                                  
Recommender systems, also labelled recommendation systems, are statistical algorithms that recommend products to users based on similarities between the buying trends of various user or similarities between the products.In this project you will see how to create a simple movie recommendation system, which recommends movies to a user using item-based collaborative filtering.Collaborative Filtering- The process used to calculate similarities between the buying trends of various user or similarities between products is called collaborative filtering. Collaborative filtering on the whole, classified into two types- User-based collaborative filtering Item based collaborative filtering. User-Based collaborative filtering is dependent on user choices. For example, in a recommender system based on user-based collaborative filtering, if two user X and Y, like products A and B and there is another user Z who likes product A, the product B will be recommended to user Z.One of the main disadvantages of user-based collaborative filtering is that user choices are evolved over time.In addition, the number of users is higher than products. Hence, creating user based collaborative filtering becomes a complex task statistically.

Item-Based collaborative filtering- In item based collaborative filtering, products are recommended based on similarities between themselves. For instance, if a user likes product A and product A has properties X and Y, another product B with properties X and Y will also be recommended to the user. Item-based collaborative filtering is eliminating user dependency and even f user choice changes over time, the properties of products remain unchanged.
